Release 20200629 (#705)
publiccodenet/about: activities/supporting-codebase-governance/customized-governance-workshop/index.md

---
type: Index
---

# Customized governance workshop

A customized governance workshop can be used for a codebase that already has some form of governance in place, or is considering a draft proposal.

> The state of the governance may suggest what to focus the workshop on, but it's strength is leveraging the governance game to socialize understanding of the governance.

Author: ```suggestion
The state of the governance may suggest what to focus the workshop on, but its strength is leveraging the governance game to socialize understanding of the governance.
```

> As such, it can be used to simply sketch out a currently well functioning mechanism, talk through an initial draft or proposed changes, or used to surface tensions, pain points, and differing understandings.

Author: ```suggestion
As such, it can be used to:

* simply sketch out a currently well functioning mechanism
* talk through an initial draft or proposed changes
* surface tensions, pain points, and differing understandings
```

It may also be used to talk through different scenarios to stress test the governance mechanism.

## The basics

The [general guidelines of how to run the governance game](../game/run-governance-game-workshop.md) can be applied with a few exceptions.

### Starting state

Instead of starting from a state card, ask the participants to visualize how (the draft for) governance currently works, using the available cards to describe the actors that are involved, and what relationships they have.
This step may be quite revealing, so let this take time as it's a good opportunity for the participants to explain how they percieve status quo.
If you can and it makes sense, prepare custom cards for the specific actors in the codebase as it will be easier for participants to relate to them.

### Scenario

The scenario cards are not needed, instead the real situation is used.

> If you can get someone in the community to summarize the current situation in the codebase, perhaps why this workshop was called, it can serve as the scenario setting.

Author: ```suggestion
If you can get someone in the community to summarize the current situation in the codebase, including why this workshop was necessary, it can serve as the scenario setting.
```

### Calamities

> The calamity cards may be used or be used as inspiration to make new ones.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the calamity cards as is or as inspiration to make new ones.
```

Try to capture real fears or questions from the community during the preparation of the workshop.
The more applicable a calamity is to the codebase, the better the discussions will be.

## The outcome

> In general, let the game take it's course and time.

Author: ```suggestion
In general, let the game take its course and time.
```

---
type: Index
---

# Customized governance workshop

A customized governance workshop can be used for a codebase that already has some form of governance in place, or is considering a draft proposal.
The state of the governance may suggest what to focus the workshop on, but its strength is leveraging the governance game to socialize understanding of the governance.
As such, it can be used to:

> * simply sketch out a currently well functioning mechanism
> * talk through an initial draft or proposed changes
> * surface tensions, pain points, and differing understandings
> It may also be used to talk through different scenarios to stress test the governance mechanism.

Reviewer: Whoops

```suggestion
* simply sketch out a currently well functioning mechanism
* talk through an initial draft or proposed changes
* surface tensions, pain points, and differing understandings

It may also be used to talk through different scenarios to stress test the governance mechanism.
```
